Collaborative Innovation License v1.0 (CIL-1.0)
December 2024
Copyright Â© 2024 RX0FA et al.

Preamble

The purpose of this license is to foster collaboration and innovation within the
open-source community, while also protecting developers and contributors from
the exploitation of their work. This license allows users to freely use, modify,
and distribute the software under conditions that ensure the software remains
accessible to the community. It also includes specific protections against the
use of the software in training AI/ML models or generative AI systems, ensuring
that the contributions made by developers and the open-source community are not
exploited for purposes that may undermine the collaborative spirit of
open-source software.

This license aims to provide the freedoms typically associated with permissive
licenses, such as the MIT License, while introducing copyleft protections
similar to the AGPLv3, and safeguarding against the growing concerns over the
use of software in artificial intelligence and machine learning.

Terms and Conditions

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is provided to do
so, subject to the following conditions:

1. Source Code Availability.

If you modify the Software and distribute or deploy it for use over a network
(e.g., as part of a web service or SaaS application), you must make the source
code of the modified version available to all users of the Software, in
accordance with the terms of this License. The source code must be made
available either by providing a written offer or by a link to the modified
source code.

2. Copy of the License.

You must include a copy of this License in all copies or substantial portions of
the Software.

3. AI/ML and Generative AI Use Restriction.

You may not use, copy, or modify the Software for the purpose of training or
creating any AI, machine learning, or generative AI models, systems, or
algorithms. Specifically, the Software cannot be used as a dataset for training
AI models or for improving or developing AI systems, whether for commercial or
non-commercial purposes.

4. No Warranty.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER
IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
